#27512 Blog post about PostSharp Logging and Conveyor (#7)
postsharp/postsharp.github.io: _posts/2020-09-25-conveyor.md

﻿---
layout: post
comments: true

> title: "Improved debugging with Conveyor and PostSharp Logging"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Diagnosing webhooks on your development machine with Conveyor and PostSharp Logging"
```

permalink: /post/improved-debugging-with-conveyor-and-postsharp-logging.html
author: "Petr H. and Jim Wright"
published: false

> ---

Reviewer: Start framing the problem. Why is it a hard problem? The reason is that we're doing a webhook and that we want to test in a real situation, where it is called from outside and we can't configure the firewall to get an input port. And also, the webhook originator will not allow the hook to run for more than 20 seconds, so debugging is not an option.

An article should tell a story where the reader is the hero, so you first imagine a situation, frame the problem by telling why it's hard, then you get your two helper characters, Conveyor and PostSharp Logging, enabling the reader to get success.

Reviewer: Ah ok now I read you've moved away from the webhook idea. Well, anyway the framing should be done in the intro, not later.

> If you're developing a web application, you want to test and debug it from devices other than your development machine. In this article, we'll show how you can do that - even if the website is not yet deployed - and also how you can find errors in your code in such a situation with detailed automatic logging. We will be using Conveyor and PostSharp Logging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're developing a web application, there are times you want to test and debug it from devices other than your development machine: from a phone that's not connected to the local network,  for instance, or from an online service if you're building a webhook. In this article, we'll show how you can do that -- even if the website is not yet deployed -- and also how you can find errors in your code in such a situation with detailed automatic logging. We will be using Conveyor, a tool that [builds a tunnel between your local machine and the Internet](https://conveyor.clou) and PostSharp Logging, which [add highly detailed logging to your .NET projects with zero impact on source code](https://www.postsharp.net/logging)
```

I've added a more concrete case in the intro and added some SEO.

Now, our application doesn't currently log anything, and we don't want to spend time adding logging everywhere so we'll go with an automatic solution: PostSharp Logging.

Add the following NuGet packages to your project:
- PostSharp.Patterns.Diagnostics
- PostSharp.Patterns.Diagnostics.Serilog
- Serilog.Sinks.File

Then, at the entry point of the application (in our case, that's *Application_Start* in `Global.asax`), add the following code:

```c#
// Configure Serilog to send logging events to a file:
const string template = "{Timestamp:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss} [{Level:u3}] {Indent:l}{Message}{NewLine}{Exception}";
Log.Logger = new LoggerConfiguration()
.MinimumLevel.Debug()
.WriteTo.File(@"C:\Logs\log.log", outputTemplate: template)
.CreateLogger();

// Configure PostSharp to send automatic logging to Serilog:
LoggingServices.DefaultBackend = new SerilogLoggingBackend(Log.Logger);
```

Then, add automatic logging to all methods in your application by adding this line at the beginning of any one file in your project:
```c#
// Apply logging to all methods and properties:
[assembly: Log]
```

> You could also target logging more precisely or exclude methods, classes or namespaces with [multicasting](https://doc.postsharp.net/attribute-multicasting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a real-life project, you will soon figure out that this is way too verbose. You can [select which methods, classes or namespaces to trace](https://doc.postsharp.net/attribute-multicasting) with multicasting.
```

This is better for SEO because we're not optimizing for multicasting.
